README.md, before:

# Typekit
A Ruby library for accessing the [Typekit API](https://typekit.com/docs/api).

## Installation
`Ruby >= 2.1` is required. Make sure you have it installed:
```bash
$ ruby -v
ruby 2.1.2p95 (2014-05-08 revision 45877) [x86_64-darwin13.0]
```

In case you don’t:
```bash
$ curl -sSL https://get.rvm.io | bash
$ rvm install 2.1
```

Add the gem into your `Gemfile` and run `bundler`:
```bash
$ echo "gem 'typekit'" >> Gemfile
$ bundle
```

In order to interact with the Typekit API, one should have a valid API token.
You can generate such a token [here](https://typekit.com/account/tokens).
For convenience, let us create a shortcut for it:
```bash
$ export tk_token=YOUR_TOKEN_GOES_HERE
```

## Usage
Here is the basic setup in a Ruby script:
```ruby
require 'typekit'

client = Typekit::Client.new(token: ENV['tk_token'])
```

And here is how to run it, assuming you name your script `app.rb`:
```bash
$ bundle exec ruby app.rb
```

Let us now have a look at some typical use cases. For clarity, the code
below makes use of the following function:
```ruby
def p(data)
  puts JSON.pretty_generate(data)
end
```

### Show all kits
Command:
```ruby
p client.index(:kits)
```

Output:
```json
{
  "kits": [
    {
      "id": "bas4cfe",
      "link": "/api/v1/json/kits/bas4cfe"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

### Show the description of a variant of a font family
Command:
```ruby
p client.show(:families, 'vcsm', 'i9')
```

Output:
```json
{
  "variation": {
    "id": "vcsm:i9",
    "name": "Proxima Nova Black Italic",
    "family": {
      "id": "vcsm",
      "link": "/api/v1/json/families/vcsm",
      "name": "Proxima Nova"
    },
    "font_style": "italic",
    "font_variant": "normal",
    "font_weight": "900",
    ...
  }
}
```

### Show the font families in the trial library with pagination
Command:
```ruby
p client.show(:libraries, 'trial', page: 10, per_page: 5)
```

Output:
```json
{
  "library": {
    "id": "trial",
    "link": "/api/v1/json/libraries/trial",
    "name": "Trial Library",
    "families": [
      {
        "id": "qnhl",
        "link": "/api/v1/json/families/qnhl",
        "name": "Caliban Std"
      },
      {
        "id": "vybr",
        "link": "/api/v1/json/families/vybr",
        "name": "Calluna"
      },
      ...
    ],
    "pagination": {
      "count": 261,
      "on": "families",
      "page": 10,
      "page_count": 53,
      "per_page": 5
    }
  }
}
```

### Create a new kit
Command:
```ruby
p result = client.create(:kits, name: 'Megakit', domains: 'localhost')
kit_id = result['kit']['id']
```

Output:
```json
{
  "kit": {
    "id": "izw0qiq",
    "name": "Megakit",
    "analytics": false,
    "badge": true,
    "domains": [
      "localhost"
    ],
    "families": [

    ]
  }
}
```

### Disable the badge of a kit
Command:
```ruby
p client.update(:kits, kit_id, badge: false)
```

Output:
```json
{
  "kit": {
    "id": "izw0qiq",
    "name": "Megakit",
    "analytics": false,
    "badge": false,
    "domains": [
      "localhost"
    ],
    "families": [

    ]
  }
}
```

### Look up the id of Proxima Nova by its slug
Command:
```ruby
p result = client.show(:families, 'proxima-nova')
family_id = result['family']['id']
```

Output:
```json
{
  "family": {
    "id": "vcsm",
    "link": "/api/v1/json/families/vcsm"
  }
}
```

### Add Proxima Nova into a kit
Command:
```ruby
p client.update(:kits, kit_id, families: { "0" => { id: family_id } })
```

Output:
```json
{
  "kit": {
    "id": "nys8sny",
    "name": "Megakit",
    "analytics": false,
    "badge": false,
    "domains": [
      "localhost"
    ],
    "families": [
      {
        "id": "vcsm",
        "name": "Proxima Nova",
        "slug": "proxima-nova",
        "css_names": [
          "proxima-nova-1",
          "proxima-nova-2"
        ],
        ...
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Delete a kit
```ruby
p client.delete(:kits, kit_id)
```

Output:
```json
{
  "ok": true
}
```

## Command-line Interface (CLI)
There is a simple CLI provided in order to demonstrate the usage of the
library and to give the ability to perform basic operations without writing
any code. The following command will install the CLI in the `bin` directory
of your project:
```bash
$ bundle binstubs typekit
```

Now:
```
$ ./bin/typekit -h
Usage: typekit [options] [command]

Required options:
    -t, --token TOKEN                Set the API token

Other options:
    -v, --version VERSION            Set the API version
    -f, --format FORMAT              Set the data format
    -h, --help                       Show this message
```

The tool has two modes: normal and interactive. If `command` is provided,
the tool executes only that particular command and terminates:
```
$ ./bin/typekit -t $tk_token index kits
{
  "kits": [
    {
      "id": "bas4cfe",
      "link": "/api/v1/json/kits/bas4cfe"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
$
```

If `command` is not provided, the tool gives a command prompt wherein one
can enter multiple commands:
```
$ ./bin/typekit -t $tk_token
Type 'help' for help and 'exit' to exit.
> help
Usage: <action> <resource> [parameters]

    <action>        index, show, create, update, or delete
    <resource>      a list separated by whitespaces
    [parameters]    a JSON-encoded hash (optional)

Examples:
    index kits
    show kits bas4cfe families vcsm
    show families vcsm i9
    show libraries trial { "page": 10, "per_page": 5 }
    create kits { "name": "Megakit", "domains": "localhost" }
    update kits bas4cfe { "name": "Ultrakit" }
    delete kits bas4cfe
> index kits
{
  "kits": [
    {
      "id": "bas4cfe",
      "link": "/api/v1/json/kits/bas4cfe"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
> exit
Bye.
$
```

## Contributing

1. Fork it ( https://github.com/IvanUkhov/typekit/fork )
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

Commit message:

Described Client#perform in README

README.md, after:

# Typekit
A Ruby library for accessing the [Typekit API](https://typekit.com/docs/api).

## Installation
`Ruby >= 2.1` is required. Make sure you have it installed:
```bash
$ ruby -v
ruby 2.1.2p95 (2014-05-08 revision 45877) [x86_64-darwin13.0]
```

In case you don’t:
```bash
$ curl -sSL https://get.rvm.io | bash
$ rvm install 2.1
```

Add the gem into your `Gemfile` and run `bundler`:
```bash
$ echo "gem 'typekit'" >> Gemfile
$ bundle
```

In order to interact with the Typekit API, one should have a valid API token.
You can generate such a token [here](https://typekit.com/account/tokens).
For convenience, let us create a shortcut for it:
```bash
$ export tk_token=YOUR_TOKEN_GOES_HERE
```

## Usage
Here is the basic setup in a Ruby script:
```ruby
require 'typekit'

client = Typekit::Client.new(token: ENV['tk_token'])
```

And here is how to run it, assuming you name your script `app.rb`:
```bash
$ bundle exec ruby app.rb
```

The main method of `client` is `perform(action, *path, parameters = {})`.
The arguments are as follows:
* `action` is the action that you would like to perform on a resource, and
  it can be one of `:index`, `:show`, `:create`, `:update`, or `:delete`;
* `*path` refers to an arbitrary number of arguments needed to identify
  the desired resource (a plenty of examples are given below), and it
  always begins with one of `:families`, `:kits`, or `:libraries`;
* `parameters` is a hash of parameters needed to perform the action.

`perform` has aliases for each of the actions: `index(*path, parameters = {})`,
`show(*path, parameters = {})`, `create(*path, parameters = {})`, and so on.
The result of a method call is returned as a hash, and its content is exactly
what the Typekit API sends back to `client`. The only exception is when
the API returns an error, in which case an appropriate exception is being
raised.

Before sending the actual request to the Typekit API, the library checks
whether the resource given by `*path` makes sense and, if it does, whether
`action` can be performed on that resource. So, if you receive an exception,
check out the [API reference](https://typekit.com/docs/api/).

Now, let us have a look at some typical use cases. For clarity, the code
below makes use of the following auxiliary function:
```ruby
def p(data)
  puts JSON.pretty_generate(data)
end
```

### Show all kits
Command:
```ruby
p client.index(:kits)
```

Output:
```json
{
  "kits": [
    {
      "id": "bas4cfe",
      "link": "/api/v1/json/kits/bas4cfe"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

### Show the description of a variant of a font family
Command:
```ruby
p client.show(:families, 'vcsm', 'i9')
```

Output:
```json
{
  "variation": {
    "id": "vcsm:i9",
    "name": "Proxima Nova Black Italic",
    "family": {
      "id": "vcsm",
      "link": "/api/v1/json/families/vcsm",
      "name": "Proxima Nova"
    },
    "font_style": "italic",
    "font_variant": "normal",
    "font_weight": "900",
    ...
  }
}
```

### Show the font families in the trial library with pagination
Command:
```ruby
p client.show(:libraries, 'trial', page: 10, per_page: 5)
```

Output:
```json
{
  "library": {
    "id": "trial",
    "link": "/api/v1/json/libraries/trial",
    "name": "Trial Library",
    "families": [
      {
        "id": "qnhl",
        "link": "/api/v1/json/families/qnhl",
        "name": "Caliban Std"
      },
      {
        "id": "vybr",
        "link": "/api/v1/json/families/vybr",
        "name": "Calluna"
      },
      ...
    ],
    "pagination": {
      "count": 261,
      "on": "families",
      "page": 10,
      "page_count": 53,
      "per_page": 5
    }
  }
}
```

### Create a new kit
Command:
```ruby
p result = client.create(:kits, name: 'Megakit', domains: 'localhost')
kit_id = result['kit']['id']
```

Output:
```json
{
  "kit": {
    "id": "izw0qiq",
    "name": "Megakit",
    "analytics": false,
    "badge": true,
    "domains": [
      "localhost"
    ],
    "families": [

    ]
  }
}
```

### Disable the badge of a kit
Command:
```ruby
p client.update(:kits, kit_id, badge: false)
```

Output:
```json
{
  "kit": {
    "id": "izw0qiq",
    "name": "Megakit",
    "analytics": false,
    "badge": false,
    "domains": [
      "localhost"
    ],
    "families": [

    ]
  }
}
```

### Look up the id of a font family by its slug
Command:
```ruby
p result = client.show(:families, 'proxima-nova')
family_id = result['family']['id']
```

Output:
```json
{
  "family": {
    "id": "vcsm",
    "link": "/api/v1/json/families/vcsm"
  }
}
```

### Add a font family into a kit
Command:
```ruby
p client.update(:kits, kit_id, families: { "0" => { id: family_id } })
```

Output:
```json
{
  "kit": {
    "id": "nys8sny",
    "name": "Megakit",
    "analytics": false,
    "badge": false,
    "domains": [
      "localhost"
    ],
    "families": [
      {
        "id": "vcsm",
        "name": "Proxima Nova",
        "slug": "proxima-nova",
        "css_names": [
          "proxima-nova-1",
          "proxima-nova-2"
        ],
        ...
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Delete a kit
```ruby
p client.delete(:kits, kit_id)
```

Output:
```json
{
  "ok": true
}
```

## Command-line Interface (CLI)
There is a simple CLI provided in order to demonstrate the usage of the
library and to give the ability to perform basic operations without writing
any code. The following command will install the CLI in the `bin` directory
of your project:
```bash
$ bundle binstubs typekit
```

Now:
```
$ ./bin/typekit -h
Usage: typekit [options] [command]

Required options:
    -t, --token TOKEN                Set the API token

Other options:
    -v, --version VERSION            Set the API version
    -f, --format FORMAT              Set the data format
    -h, --help                       Show this message
```

The tool has two modes: normal and interactive. If `command` is provided,
the tool executes only that particular command and terminates:
```
$ ./bin/typekit -t $tk_token index kits
{
  "kits": [
    {
      "id": "bas4cfe",
      "link": "/api/v1/json/kits/bas4cfe"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
$
```

If `command` is not provided, the tool gives a command prompt wherein one
can enter multiple commands:
```
$ ./bin/typekit -t $tk_token
Type 'help' for help and 'exit' to exit.
> help
Usage: <action> <resource> [parameters]

    <action>        index, show, create, update, or delete
    <resource>      a list separated by whitespaces
    [parameters]    a JSON-encoded hash (optional)

Examples:
    index kits
    show kits bas4cfe families vcsm
    show families vcsm i9
    show libraries trial { "page": 10, "per_page": 5 }
    create kits { "name": "Megakit", "domains": "localhost" }
    update kits bas4cfe { "name": "Ultrakit" }
    delete kits bas4cfe
> index kits
{
  "kits": [
    {
      "id": "bas4cfe",
      "link": "/api/v1/json/kits/bas4cfe"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
> exit
Bye.
$
```

## Contributing

1. Fork it ( https://github.com/IvanUkhov/typekit/fork )
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request
